Let's talk about PDX.
How do we process them.
I mean we've learned about working with files in our previous section with Python.
And you can imagine that we can work with any files we've learned about image processing but we've also
learned that we can just manipulate any text file any PDA file any CSP or excel file.
These are all just file types that we can process and work with in Python.
In this section we're going to talk about PD F and how this might work and this knowledge of PD F will
transferred to different file formats.
Now we're going to talk about Excel files and CSP files later on in the course when we get into machine
learning.
But for now let's work with PD and see how we can use python to make our lives easier.
Now I'm going to link to some PDA files that we have here that we're going to use in this section.
We have a simple dummy PDA file.
We have a another PDA file that actually has two pages and then we have a watermark PD F which we're
going to save for our final project in the section but let's go back here from what we've learned so
far.
What do you think our first step is Well our first step is to find a library that we can use with Python
to process PDA files and get ready for this section.
I have a really impressive Web site.
Probably the best web site you've seen probably the cleanest most modern web site when it comes to the
package that we're installing.
We're installing something called Pip 3 install P Y PD f.
Now there's a lot of packages that we can install when it comes to PDX.
This is the one that I recommend for the course.
Now while this is installing in my case it's already installed.
Let me show you what their Web site documentation looks like.
Get ready.
It's pretty.
Here it is.
Wow.
Right.
I don't know why but for some reason Python documentation Web sites are not the prettiest.
I mean this is all subjective right.
Some people like this but it just doesn't get you excited about working with PDX.
This Web site does it anyway.
You can see over here that it's actually not that big of a library and you can click on the documentation
and again read through everything.
But let's just learn the basics.
So the first thing I'm going to do is import P Y PD F two.
And what we're going to do is work with the first one the dummy up EDF which is just this PDA file that
has one single page that says dummy PDA file.
Nothing too exciting.
Now how can we open this file.
We know this from previous lessons.
Right.
We can use that with open command and we'll say dummy dot PDA.
And I can say it like this because we're in the same folder I have a PDA if dot py file that I've created.
So I'm just saying Hey grab the dummy PDA F from the same directory and in here Let's for now just do
read because I want to read the file and then just say as a file and for now print file to see what
we get.
I'm going to run this file by saying Python 3 PDA f dot pi.
Let's see what happens.
All right.
I get a text Io wrapper name dummy PDA f.
It looks like it's working.
Let's just explore this a little bit more to see that it is indeed working.
What we can do is actually use that pipe EDF to read the file.
So let's do this.
We can say reader equals pi PD F and use the method PD f file reader again.
It allows us to read this python file so let's just give it file in here and then we'll just print reader
and we can ask for a number of pages.
Again this comes with the library.
So let's run this and see what happens.
All right.
We get an error.
It says PD f read warning paedophile reader stream file object is not in binary mode.
What does that mean.
Well remember binary is ones and zeros right.
If I click on dummies dummied up EDF this is not the PDA we thought.
This is how a PDA should look.
But you see depending on the program that you're running it might not be able to read the PDA file.
So what we need to do and this is just a standard that you have to remember is that we want to read
the binary so it's read and then binary.
So what happens here is that this creates a file stream object so it's going to convert the file object
to binary mode so that the P Y PDL 2 file reader can read this binary file object.
So now if I run this again look at that.
It's able to read it and it tells me that this has one page.
If I do two page dot EDF and run this we get two pages.
Awesome.
Let's clear this and go back to our dummy up EDF.
I feel bad for naming this PDA if dummy.
I shouldn't be mean to this PBF.
I'll I'll work on my naming conventions next time.
So just like we saw in the image processing with BP EDF we can do a lot of things to process this image.
For example I can do.
Get page here.
And if I do get page let's say the first page and I run this
we get the page object over here.
Now it looks like gibberish here because while this is a special object that pipe EDF creates.
But if I do something like page one which will be the page two in this case I get an error an index
error saying list index out of range because the dummy PBF f only has one page.
We can also do different things like let's for example rotate this image and we'll rotated one hundred
and eighty degrees if I run this.
This doesn't work.
Now why is this.
It's because P Y PD f 2 uses the reader object but it needs to know what to rotate in our case we actually
have to get the page of the reader to rotate it.
So we have to do something like reader dot get page get the first page of our dummy PDA F and assign
this to the page variable so that now that we have the page object remember a page object and a reader
object fine now run this well I get page.
Object has no attribute rotate and I may have tricked you a little bit to prove a point here.
Now this rotate objects sounds like something that it should have but it's actually not the right name
that we want.
So how can we solve this.
And this gets back to us reading the documentation if I go back to the file reader and lets search rotate
or let's go back here we see that we have the page object class which we have right.
We have the page object if I click over here let's find rotate and we have a few things we have merged
rotate page we keep going keep going keep going and all right we have rotate clockwise rotate counterclockwise
and the angle so it looks like this is what we need.
We don't actually have a rotate method but you see here this is how we figure out what the library does.
We also have scale to scale by if we want it to.
So let's just copy rotate clockwise or let's do rotate counterclockwise and we'll just do 90 if I save
this and run.
All right we get back an object here but this object is actually in memory if I go back to my dummy.
Nothing has changed because we haven't really saved anything.
This is all in my computer's memory.
When this program stops running well it gets trashed.
So let's update our dummied up PD F to actually right and rotate counterclockwise.
How can we do that.
Well with another with keyword so inside of with open we're going to say with open and we'll call this
let's say crooked.
I don't know if this is how you spell crooked.
So let's go with tilt dot PD F and we're going to open this file and we're going to write to this file
in binary format and we're going to say as file and in here we're going to write the file to this new
file.
But how can we do this.
This library gives us something called a writer object so we can create a writer variable.
And this writer variable will use the P Y PD f dot PD F instead of follow meter.
We have a file
and this allows us to write the object in memory so that now I can say writer dot write and just to
make the naming convention appropriate let's say this is going to be the new file.
So we'll say new file so let's see if this works I'm going to clear and let's run this.
All right.
We have tilt dot PD F but we actually forgot to do one thing because we've just opened a writer object
but we're not actually writing any PDX into it.
Ideally we get the rotated page and write inside of it.
Right.
So what we can do is remove the print here we've rotated the page and with the writer object that we
have now we can say writer dot add page and give it the page that we've rotated.
So now if I run this one more time and go to tilt Well again we see gibberish here but if we open this
look at that harpy IDF is rotated just like that.
Very very cool so that's great but kind of useless.
Right.
Who really rotates PDX.
That's really hard to read but at least this shows you the ability for us to process PDX let's work
on something more exciting in the next video.
I want us to do something a little bit more useful than this.
So let's take a break and I'll see you in the next one.